[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: One
great beauty of this time
is that we're seeing the
convergence of science
and ancient knowledge.
More so, it's some of
the younger generation
that are putting
pieces together that
have been missed until now.
Tiffany Barsotti is showing
how our body is directly
interfacing with our higher
mind and consciousness.
It gives an entirely
different understanding
of what our glands and
nerves are actually doing.
Welcome.
First of all, so people can
get to know you a little bit,
just tell us your background.
>>TIFFANY BARSOTTI:
So I actually started
in the entertainment
industry at about age 16
and was sort of directionless
living in Los Angeles, South
Central actually.
>>REGINA: What an unusual story
direction, directionless in LA.
>>BARSOTTI: Directionless in LA.
Can you imagine?
And Ruth Pointer of
the Pointer Sisters,
actually, was like
a surrogate mother.
And she pointed me in
the direction and said,
you would make an
excellent manager.
And so it really gave
me some life direction
that was beautiful.
All the while, I
had been dealing
with my own sort of
health challenges
and very interested in
Rosicrucian, Egyptian
philosophy, physics
and quantum physics.
One of my favorite
authors was Fritjof Capra.
And so "The Tao of
Physics" is what
I was reading over and
over again at the time.
The guidance that I
got in that moment
was call a medical intuitive.
So I did.
And within a couple of
days, I was in her office,
maybe about a week max.
And she comes out of
her trance-like state.
And she says, you have three
days to make up your mind.
>>REGINA: About?
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah.
I wanted to pretend
like I didn't know
what she was talking about.
But deep down, I knew,
because I had been told,
I think at age 18 for 19 by a
good friend, family friend who
was an astrologer,
you're a healer.
You're supposed to be
doing these kinds of things
and be in this realm.
And I was like, absolutely not.
I'm a business person.
I'm ambitious.
This is what I'm doing.
And she says, OK.
It also says you're
a late bloomer.
So take the road
you need to take.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So now, I'm asking you in
advance, because a lot of this
is science-based, to put it
in lay terms for all of us.
And we'll have
some lovely imagery
that will help develop
this, because we're
talking about systems, glandular
systems, and connections
in the body, the
autonomic nervous system,
albeit a brand new take on the
autonomic nervous system, which
is a part that I find exciting.
As we're going
through this matrix,
let's go to the vagus nerve.
>>BARSOTTI: I'd like to describe
it as an adaptive nerve.
It's the one that's constantly
reading your outer environment
to your inner environment.
And it is the only nerve
in the body that wanders.
It's also known as the
10th cranial nerve,
once again branching out of
that same area, which is why
my attention was drawn to it.
And it weaves all the
way through the body.
>>REGINA: All the way
down through digestive.
>>BARSOTTI: Digestive,
liver, all the viscera.
And it also-- so
that's the efferent,
meaning the downward flow,
the exit out of the brain.
The afferent is the upward,
going into the brain.
About 20% are up.
80% are down.
>>REGINA: You're saying
that a lot of people that
are being diagnosed with
one condition or another,
it's actually stemming
from the vagus nerve.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
So if we look at this
as the body's feedback
in the inflammatory states,
if you've eaten something
that is gone awry,
and your body is
trying to give you
some feedback on it.
And say you just take
some indigestion pills,
or you just take Beano,
or whatever it is,
know that's your body actually
trying to communicate something
that isn't digesting well.
And that's the vagus that's
actually doing that work.
>>REGINA: It's giving
you the information.
>>BARSOTTI: It's giving
We could look at this
now as three branches.
We've always looked at the
autonomic nervous system
is having two.
But I see that work
in the body as three.
>>REGINA: Sympathetic and
parasympathetic, and that's
really all you hear about
is on, off, on, off.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes, exactly.
And so now, there's
this other one
that we call safety or social.
And that's really
looking at more of--
there's a theory going on
about the polyvagal theory.
And this is bringing that in.
Stephen Porges is the
creator of this theory.
And he talks about
the difference
in the nervous system type,
the cell types, and the ones
that are sort of a protected
nerve, that goes upward
from the diaphragm, and one
that is less protected that's
leftover from our reptilian,
our older system, that are
everything below the diaphragm.
So this is--
>>REGINA: Isn't it
interesting, now?
This brings up a big area of
discussion, because, I mean,
it's almost an epidemic now that
people are finding themselves
supposedly allergic to all
of these foods to the point
where some people find food too
so toxic they can barely eat.
What's going on?
>>BARSOTTI: We are
needing to evolve
the way that we are digesting.
And I would like to look at this
more from an energetic point
of view.
It's what are we not digesting.
We're all taking in
so much information.
So if we're on
information overload,
and we're not digesting either
things from our emotional past,
things that are unfinished
business that were left over
from long ago, that were
just left lying dormant,
and we're not actually
dealing with them,
these things are
going to show up
in our inflammatory reflexes.
>>REGINA: First of
all, how was this
discovered, this notion
of a third branch
of the autonomic nervous system?
And what does this
actually mean to us
on a personal level about being
so disconnected and isolated
as individuals, versus
being socially coherent
and having that
interpret somehow
into our nervous system?
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah, a
couple of things here.
So it's discovery has
been somewhat recent.
However, if you look back
to AT Still's work, who
wrote on osteopathic medicine
and manual manipulation,
they talked about other
branches and other activity
within the nervous system.
They didn't have a name for it.
It's, I believe, since
Stephen Porges' work,
that it's actually
received a name, which
is this social network.
Now, if we look at it
as we've been evolving,
and we learn the activity
of our facial structures,
how we're responding, the
porosity of our voice,
meaning how we're
rhythmically we are connected
with our voice, how well we use
our ability to connect with one
another, that actually
creates an inner ear balance
and helps with a person
to be able to have
a sense of connection and
feel a sense of safety.
That's the key.
The social piece is
connected to safety.
>>REGINA: What is
this showing you?
What are you able to take
away from this in service
to your clients?
>>BARSOTTI: For those
that are mothers,
to really make sure that they
use their face expressions
a lot to connect with
their children with voice,
because it's the development
of this area of all
of the afferent, the parts
of the nerve sheath that are
growing up into the brain that
connect to the middle ear that
allow us to have an equilibrium,
both literally an equilibrium,
as well as a balanced
equilibrium in our--
>>REGINA: Emotionally,
spiritually, and otherwise.
>>BARSOTTI: Emotionally.
Exactly.
And it gives you
a sense of safety.
>>REGINA: And now
this really moves
us toward the subject
of mind, greater mind,
because mind is
permeating all of this.
Mind is permeating the nervous
pathways, the glandular
systems, the organic systems.
Let's speak about mind from
a different perspective
in the way that you're
understanding it.
>>BARSOTTI: Beautiful.
One thing I love
that Einstein said
close to his time of
death, is that it's
field before particle.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BARSOTTI: And the mind
may be more of a field.
And Pen--
>>REGINA: Should we
read that quote by Pen?
>>BARSOTTI: Sure.
Please do.
>>REGINA: --"admonished his
peers not to look for the mind
within the brain.
He had spent his
career searching
and could not find it there.
We may come to find that
neither consciousness,
nor Consciousness
with a capital C,
is under the control
of a single structure,
responding instead to reflexes
within axes of structures.
What does that mean?
>>BARSOTTI: That's a
mouthful, isn't it?
>>REGINA: It is.
>>BARSOTTI: So Penfield
Wilder, first of all,
he is just an amazing mind
in being able to advance
our neurosciences.
And he really had a great
respect for the mind.
So the point that I was
raising in that, bringing
in his comment, is if we
don't think of the mind
and consciousness so centrally
localized to the brain,
then how is it that
we could actually
be looking at these accesses
throughout our body,
whether we're talking about
the hypothalamus pituitary
adrenal access, whether we're
talking about these brain
accesses, there's all different
accesses throughout the body.
And for millennia in
looking at systems biology
and how ayurvedic
looks at it, Tibetan
medicine, Sufi
medicine, they've always
looked at these interchanges,
these crossroads of the body.
Those are accesses.
>>REGINA: To the mind,
to the greater mind.
>>BARSOTTI: To the mind.
That's right.
So what is your
relationship with spirit?
What is your relationship
with yourself?
with your family
and your environment?
Those are the things that have
to do with all the information
that your mind is picking up.
If we think about the mind
being more field oriented,
we're constantly
picking up information.
You said earlier
something that is
key about how there's so many
bits and bytes that we're
picking up.
The number that is in Norretra--
it's "User Illusion."
I'm going to butcher his name.
So I won't say his name.
He spoke about how many nerve
endings there are and that
they're--
subconscious is actually
processing about 12 billion--
sorry, 12 million bits of
information per second.
Meanwhile, the cognitive brain
is only doing about 100--
I see the ranges between
134 and 183 bits per second.
>>REGINA: So our field
is processing everything.
>>BARSOTTI: So much.
>>REGINA: It's processing sound.
It's processing light.
It's processing words.
It's processing frequencies
passing through our field.
It's processing all the time.
And we're consciously,
mostly unaware of it.
>>BARSOTTI: That's right.
That's right.
However, as we
increase our ability
and knowing ourselves as field--
some say bio field.
Some say aura.
Some say-- there's all these
different terms around it
these days.
If we can see that there are
aspects to ourselves that
go far beyond,
there's some people
that say for as far as your
arms can go high and wide,
is as big as your field.
And so that is
processing information.
One of my personal
curiosities is
can we process information
that happens out here before it
happens in here, ideally?
>>REGINA: Because it happens
here first, out there first,
but the transference
is so quick.
So let's talk about that.
You're working with clients.
And you can see
disruptions in field.
You can see blown out fields.
You can see areas where there's
no more protection in a field,
and so forth.
How do you begin
working with restoring
the field or the interface with
the greater mind, the higher
mind into the more
matter-oriented aspects
of our life, the physical?
>>BARSOTTI: So depending
on what it is, sometimes
I won't begin out here.
I'll actually begin where
our central nervous system,
bringing choice back
to your awareness,
because where we put our
attention-- once again,
this is using the reticular
activating system--
where we put our
attention is where
we tend to be bringing more in.
And so I will make
someone aware of,
whether it's through
one of the devices
that I use to help
them see, or I'm
helping them see or
feel for themself,
what is actually going on
and say what happened here.
And we'll usually get a story.
We'll usually get
something as an entree.
Oh, this trauma happened here,
oh, this damage, oh, there it
brings up a memory.
So it's once again, it's
very personal and individual.
And then I will begin,
usually, from the inside out.
What choice did you
make in that moment?
Because you either
lost energy, and you're
draining energy from there.
>>REGINA: Is this almost
like the trauma that's
trapped inside,
both inside the body
and the greater mind
at the same time?
>>BARSOTTI: That's right.
That's right.
So if we can heal by realizing
that we've put our mind,
our attention, our focus,
in a certain area and caused
something to happen to us,
then we have to also realize--
whether or not you want
to take responsibility,
it doesn't matter--
whether we can actually see
that our choice has the ability
to affect what
happens in the future.
So then if you
are-- we will likely
be in a similar
situation in the future,
so that when you are in that
you will have the skills.
You will be adept.
You will know what to do and how
to adapt yourself differently.
But onset after
onset, if you've got
a weak spot in your
auric field, and you
keep getting slammed
there, it's likely
going to create another kind
of organ different damage.
>>REGINA: Yes.
How, when we're looking at
this great field of mind,
how often do you see where,
actually, past lives have
played into whatever the
physical circumstances
at this time?
>>BARSOTTI: It's quite
frequent, actually,
that there's a lot that's there.
And it used to be that
after my training,
that I would spend a good
amount of time beginning there.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>BARSOTTI: And now
I don't anymore.
I actually just let the process
begin where it needs to begin.
And if we are taken, because the
body's innate intelligence will
take us there, where it's
ready to heal in that time,
then it will be the right time
to go and dig that stuff up.
But if I begin
there, and I what I
have found, if the
person doesn't have
the tools and the
cognitive ability
to be able to deal with the
fact that we just opened up
this whole other part of them,
and they're not ready for it,
it's not a good thing either.
So and for past life, for some
people that maybe don't believe
in that, we all have a lineage.
We all have a--
>>REGINA: Call it
your parents, exactly.
>>BARSOTTI: --of
how we got here.
So unfinished business runs
the span throughout time.
So whether you're seeing it from
a past life or just something
that your mom maybe
didn't get done,
so there's still
healing that can happen.
>>REGINA: Speaking of
mom, a lot of this also
is instigated during
the birth process.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
>>REGINA: And let's
go there for a bit
before we go on to kind of the
science, the detection devices,
the some of them that you use,
and what the future's going
to look like for detecting all
of this in the greater field.
>>BARSOTTI: Beautiful.
In utero time is so important.
The way we do birth is
oftentimes the way we do life,
so meaning that we are,
it's our first entry.
And it's our first--
and if we've had a
rough birth, then we
may need to start things
that may not be always easy.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
What would you do about a baby
who arrives tail end first?
Frank breech birth, for example,
what would that indicate?
>>BARSOTTI: So in a session--
>>REGINA: With the butt first?
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah, so they may
need to do things opposite.
They may even be dyslexic.
They may be--
>>REGINA: I arrived that way,
and all those things are true.
>>BARSOTTI: Very good.
So you're essentially, you may--
>>REGINA: Do everything
backwards, even wired
backwards, energetically.
>>BARSOTTI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So that's perfect.
I'm glad I didn't tell you that.
But yeah, yeah.
>>BARSOTTI: So there's a big--
we actually begin our karma
in this lifetime at our birth.
And it is a life
and death moment.
And something that I think
is so important for us
to remember when
babies are born, too,
before we cut the
umbilical cord,
if it's possible, if it's
not an emergency situation,
to let the cord settle.
Let the baby just
rest on mother's chest
and feel a rhythm, feel
breath, field life, because--
>>REGINA: Feel the field.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
And then cut the cord and say,
OK, baby, you're on your own.
You're breathing
now for yourself.
You're not attached to me.
Your food is not based
on only me anymore.
>>REGINA: Right.
One other, when people, when
babies come out feet first?
>>BARSOTTI: So it's kind
of similar in that they may
need to do things feet first.
They may need to do from
backwards, almost from
and to the beginning.
>>REGINA: So all of these
things are symbolic, the way
the baby positions itself.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes, absolutely.
There's a lot of choice
with how babies come in.
It's not conscious,
it's unconscious choice.
>>REGINA: And
sometimes the best laid
plans-- we both have
a mutual friend who
just had a baby a
couple days ago,
and healthy, picture perfect
mom, a baby developing very
nicely, and at the
last minute, everything
goes sideways, totally
not what they expected,
not what they wanted.
But I've seen this
happen quite a bit
with super conscientious
healthy moms in particular.
I've seen this
happen a few times.
What's up with that?
>>BARSOTTI: The baby
had his own contract.
It's not about what we do.
And this is a really
good thing for us--
>>REGINA: And to not beat
ourselves up over that,
because it's--
>>BARSOTTI: Yes, don't.
No.
It's just another opportunity
for unconditional love, always,
and that we have to
just love these babies,
and even though our
mutual friend also
has realized that there's a
choice for that baby and how--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
It could be a timing issue.
The baby doesn't want
to be born or does
want to be born under a specific
kind of cosmic influence.
It could be anything.
>>BARSOTTI: Exactly, Exactly.
>>REGINA: So I just
thought I'd ask about that.
>>BARSOTTI: But it
is all healable.
>>REGINA: Yes,
it's all healable.
>>BARSOTTI: So later
on, when you do--
if it's necessary.
Not everything is
necessary-- but in a session,
you go into what I
actually call de-hypnosis.
And you go into
this state where you
remember your birth process.
And you change your
relationship with it.
And you actually can reframe it.
>>REGINA: That's interesting,
because as I said,
I came out frank
breach, as it's called.
But I have been back
through that process.
And I remember
feeling before birth,
do I really want to do this one?
It was like, there was
going to be a lot of work.
And do I really-- it was just
kind of that last hesitation
before you step into
the game, so to speak.
>>BARSOTTI: That's right.
>>REGINA: So and then, I do.
I find that other people who
have gone through this process
find it quite
valuable to know what
the feelings were in the
environment just prior
to birth.
It tells you a lot about what
your life is going to be.
>>BARSOTTI: That's true.
That's very true.
>>REGINA: It is reflective
of what has been.
Now we get to the
fun stuff about you
had mentioned very briefly in
passing, some of the devices
that are used to be able
to show this incredibly
complex picture of
health and field
and so forth to the client.
And one of them is the GVD
device, or the Bio-Well device,
which actually Gaia
is now in partnership
with Konstantin Korotkov in
creating this so that it's
very available to the public.
How do you use this device?
How does this work?
>>BARSOTTI: So clinically
and in research both.
And I've been using the
GDV now for plus 10 years.
So there's actually a fair
amount of research on it
that's mostly been done in
Russia, some here as well.
So what it's doing
is taking a picture
of the end of the fingertips.
And it's looking at--
so you know this.
And probably most
of the audience
knows this-- that
the meridians end
at the fingertips and the toes.
And so what we're taking
a picture of is this gas
discharge exchange with this--
I'm not going to get into the
physics of the whole thing.
>>REGINA: It shows you a picture
of, essentially, your aura.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
>>REGINA: And your
energy centers.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
So it gives you the chakras.
It gives you-- and
these are pixilated
views, these kind of dots that
make it look like your aura.
And they map to organs
and systems in the body.
So it shows you how
you're managing stress
and how you are managing
and adapting through all
of your organs and systems.
So it's great to give a
visual assistant to my clients
or somebody that just needs to
see what's actually going on.
And when we're in--
and it's very dynamic.
So when we're in a state,
and we take a measurement,
you're getting a snapshot
in that moment in time.
So if something happens,
say you do a healing,
which isn't going
in a positive way,
or some trauma happens,
and you take a GDV,
it will be obvious in the
results of what you're seeing.
>>REGINA: And how do your--
I just, I'm dyslexic.
I said GVD I think.
>>BARSOTTI: GDV.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
think I said a GVD.
I do that all the time.
So how do your clients
respond to this?
>>BARSOTTI: It's very helpful.
So it's like a
light bulb goes on.
Oh, you mean-- and
so oftentimes, we
can see it this big
blast at the thyroid.
Or we can see something like
a missing area in the adrenals
or see a missing area or a
really large plume of energy
off the hypothalamus
that's giving us--
and there's ways to read it.
So we're looking at
the color that's there.
We're looking at the amount of
energy that's there and seeing,
is it healthy energy?
>>REGINA: Yes, so this is one
of these beautiful crossover
devices that is beginning
to show us within the field.
So we can see prior to it taking
really deep root into the body
and start taking action.
I mean, it's really lovely.
And we only have a
couple of minutes
left, but if you could tell
us a little bit about what
you see as--
we were going to
talk about the notion
of the development of
cross-platform validation
in the world of science.
Because right now,
you have allopathic
and you have non-allopathic.
And the two don't
really cross over.
And you get-- your doctor
tells you one thing
and scares you to death.
You go to your alternative
practitioner of some kind.
They say, no, you are all right,
just need some supplements.
So where are we going?
Talk about this crossover.
>>BARSOTTI: First of all,
I have a lot of compassion
for the doctors right now.
There are a lot who
really do believe,
and because they have an
M.D. after their name,
they have to practice
standard of care.
So I have a lot of compassion.
For those that do have the
Open Minds that actually want
to branch into these areas
and those that are willing,
there are tools to
be able to start
to look into these things.
I happen to work
alongside several M.D.
And naturopathic
doctors, osteopaths,
and all kinds of other
allied health professionals
that are in this area.
So I'm in a unique position of
educating them and showing them
what we can see.
>>REGINA: And seeing
cross-validation.
>>BARSOTTI: Absolutely.
And so the idea with this
cross platform validation
is that we will
build a lab that is
able to look at many of
these devices to see,
this one tells us
this over here.
And this one tells us this.
Where do they correlate?
And also against
gold standard, so
if we've been using EKG for
heart health for a long time,
how else can we maybe use some
of these other devices that
may be giving us just
a different subtlety
and a different finesse on
the same type of information?
So we have loads of
stories with the GDV
and the Bio-Well of people
getting their image taken
and saying, go check
out your heart.
And the EKG didn't
pick up anything.
But maybe a year or
two later, it did.
>>BARSOTTI: Right, because it's
reading the more subtle field.
And there's Konstantin
Korotkov, who
I think we all adore for the
work he's done in the world,
and an adorable human being.
Anybody that's interested,
I did an interview
with him a few years ago.
So they'll find that in
the CMN archives here.
But he worked on this
for what, 20 years?
>>BARSOTTI: Yes, more than now.
>>REGINA: I mean,
he's brilliant,
Soviet Academy of Sciences,
brilliant, brilliant man.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes, we're lucky.
>>REGINA: So that's where
that science is coming from.
It's solid.
>>BARSOTTI: It is very solid.
>>REGINA: subtle, but solid.
And that's really more
where we're moving.
>>BARSOTTI: And it's
different mathematical.
So and just to say on
this note that there
is a practice of
medicine that I am
a fellow of called endobiogeny.
And it's systems biology.
And I am able to
see blood correlate
with the numbers and the
values that we see in the GDV.
>>REGINA: So it's another
way of viewing blood?
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
>>REGINA: That's interesting.
That's almost another
conversation, isn't it?
>>BARSOTTI: It is.
It is.
>>REGINA: Goodness, and we've
chewed right past-- we've
blown right past our exit time.
It's been so much fun.
>>BARSOTTI: Did we?
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
Any final thoughts for us?
I know that we touched on
it, some mobile technologies
coming out Michio Kaku and I
don't know if it was "Visions."
But one of his books about 15
years ago talked about 50, 150,
and on into the future and
what science would look like.
And one of them that
stuck was our toilets
would be able to reflect back
all of our biological data
to us on a daily basis.
So we could see our
chemicals and how
they're changing in the body,
and hormones, and so forth.
What are some of them
that you're aware of?
>>BARSOTTI: And
this is so great,
because now where we are
with our microbiome research,
that we might be
able to actually find
the proper receptacle
that can actually do this.
So there's a lot
developing in this area.
Konstantin and I have sort
of joked in the future
that there would be a mirror
that we could see ourselves
before we walk out
the door and say,
let's just check my energy.
Let's see how I'm
doing today and be
able to have that reflection be
more of a healthy mind state.
And it's like, yeah, that board
meeting that is supposed to be
today, I better not attend.
>>REGINA: And you know what?
I don't think that's far off.
>>BARSOTTI: I agree.
I agree.
>>REGINA: And I
think our ancestors
knew how to do that anyway.
>>BARSOTTI: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Looking into water
and so forth, seeing their field
reflected.
>>BARSOTTI: That's right.
>>REGINA: It's exciting
and really exciting
crossover times.
And your work is amazing.
And I think we'll have more to
talk about down the road too.
We haven't even gotten
into, I think, about half
of what we were scheduled
to talk about today.
Thank you so much, Tiffany,
and for your ongoing endeavors.
I appreciate your time.
>>BARSOTTI: Thank you.
Thank you for yours.
>>REGINA: To take
the a deeper look
at the way Tiffany is putting
this information together,
or to connect with her
regarding her healing work,
go to Tiffany@Healandthrive.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaia TV.
[THEME MUSIC]